Hey. Good day. Oh, yeah.
Off to the left.
Yeah, yeah, I know. I'll introduce you.
We, we'll let Eleanor sit in the middle. Ah.
Okay.
We'll put you up, yes,
please.
Cute. That's wonderful.
(laughs)
And you, are you sitting beside me as well?
We haven't decided.
I like how you decided tonight.
No, no, no. (laughs)
Yeah, not true.
Thank you so much for your time, uh, last time as Callaghan Innovation (laughs) .
Yeah. And we have 90 minutes with you, so if you would like to,
um, start by some opening remarks, and then, uh, we will have questions.
Thank you.
Thank you, Chair. Um,
(speaks Maori) . My name is Eleanor Trout, and I'm the chair of
Callaghan Innovation. And with me to my right is
the chief executive, Dr. Stephan Korn, and to my left is Cliff
Hastings, one of his leadership team members.
Thank you very much for your time today.
Um, I have just some brief opening comments, and then we'll be happy to answer
any of your questions. Uh, I'd like to begin to
acknowledge that for Callaghan Innovation, the
'24/'25 financial year was very much a game of two
halves. Uh, it started with the organization focused on its
core functions, which is supporting companies to grow
and innovate through funding support, administering the
R&D tax credits, and offering products such as
commercialization advice and innovation skills training.
And the second is providing scientific and engineering expertise to help
businesses solve R&D challenges.
Broadly speaking, this has been the focus of Callaghan Innovation since its
inception in 2013, helping to foster
science and innovation for the benefit of the New Zealand economy and its
people.
The recently released five-year evaluation of the R&D tax
incentive was particularly gratifying.
It showed that firms supported by the RDTI spent an average
of $274,000 more each year on
R&D between 2020 and 2024.
And for every dollar of government support, firms delivered a $1.40
in extra R&D spending, which was matching international
benchmarks. As a chair of the board, I'm very proud of the
work done delivering our core services.
However, at the beginning of this year, there was a question mark hanging over the
future of Callaghan Innovation because of the review of the
science, innovation, and technology system.
The government's ambition was to reshape the system to better support
economic growth, and that was always likely to mean significant
change. For Callaghan Innovation, that change was the
decision to disestablish the organization as announced in
January of this year. Disestablishing
an organization with an annual budget of just over $200 million
that employed 355 people, some of which had
very specialized skills and worked with more than
2,000 customers in one year is no small task.
At the same time as disestablishment was announced, the minister wrote to my
predecessor as chair indicating which of the organizational
functions were to be transferred to the other parts of the new
system. It was our job to shut down the remaining
unfunded functions in a timely and efficient manner.
Between February and the end of June, the organization went
two... went through two change processes during which
112 roles were disestablished. Specific
roles were identified as part of these processes, and while some positions
were removed, some employees were successfully deployed or
applied for vacant roles that required to support the
organization's ongoing operations.
At this point, I want to thank those staff that worked diligently on those
discontinued functions for their commitment and
professionalism. Not only did they carefully work through
all the implications of shutting down their work programs, but they also
supported our customers and each other at a difficult
time. Alongside this work, management reviewed
staffing levels required for the next phase of
disestablishment. By 1 July, staff numbers had fallen
to 253.
At the same time as managing the shutdown of services, we also began
planning for the transfer of those parts of the business that were to
continue. At a high level, everything relating to business
grants, startup and founder support, R&D tax
incentives, and the R&D loans shift to MBIE.
The biotechnology groups, the BioResource Processing Alliance,
and the Food Innovation Network will move to the new Institute for
Bioeconomy Science. The Product
Accelerator, Health Teeth Activator, and Deep Tech
Incubator will become part of the Institute of Advanced
Technology. The Measurement Standards
Laboratory transfers to the Institute for Earth Science.
Transfers have already begun, and 39 staff
have moved to MBIE in October. The transfer of
people, assets, and data will continue over the course of the current
financial
year.The other
big piece of the disestablishment puzzle is the Gracefield Innovation
Quarter in Lower Hutt. And this is commonly referred
to as GIQ.
A number of you will be aware that this site has been the heart of the science
sector for many decades.
Mm-hmm.
GIQ spans 10 hectares, has 26 main
buildings, and over 26,000 square meters of floor
space, which includes 240 laboratory
spaces.
It's not only used by Callaghan staff but is also, has several large
tale- tenants, including Victoria University's Ferrier
and Robinson Research Institutes.
GIQ is a mix of-
(coughs)
... older buildings near the end of their useful life as well as a number of newer
facilities.
Callaghan Innovation is currently working in preparing a business plan
to explore the full range of commercial options for the future of
GIQ.
This could include seeking private investment and more tenants, but it also
includes the possible end of scaling back the science activities at
GIQ and the sale of some or all of the
property.
Callaghan Innovation is working very closely with stakeholders, including its
tenants,
the PROs that are to be stood up, the Hutt City Council, and
the local chamber of commerce to ensure we look at things from
every angle.
Ultimately, of course, it will be up to the ministers to consider the business case
and decide on the best future of GIQ.
And just to wrap up, I want to end by noting that while it has
been a challenging year for the people at Callaghan Innovation-
Mm-hmm.
... I think they can reflect on a difficult job well
done.
At this point, I also wish to acknowledge Dr.
Stefan Korn, who will be stepping down from Callaghan at the end of
January. Stefan has been a, a
wonderful leader in a time of significant change, and the board
congratulates him on a job well done. Thank you.
Mm-hmm.
Thank you so much, Adelina. And can I acknowledge you, Stefan, and also Cliff and
everybody in your leadership team?
Because these kind of changes are not easy, so for managing the changes the
way you're managing. So I really want to acknowledge that in the start.
Um-
Thank you, Chair.
... we can go on to questions. Uh, Reuben Davidson?
Thank you, Madam Chair. And just to tautoko that acknowledgement of the, the work
that you've done and the support that you've provided for your people through a,
um,
significant shutdown and significant period of change for
them. Um-
Thank you.
... I, um, I guess what I'm wanting to get an idea of is exactly what impact
that's had on, on the people of, who have been the people of
Callaghan. And wanted, uh, through a series of questions, hoping you can
help me to understand where they've gone, where they're going, and,
and, um, yeah, give us the best possible understanding
of that. So, um,
do you have a sense of how many
former Callaghan, um, employees have secured new
employment versus how many currently remain without
work?
I can take that.
Uh, thank you very much. Um, so we don't formally collect
information about where, um, staff are transferring to, uh, but
just to say that, um, we have provided, um,
extensive, um, you know, outplacement services with
very high uptake levels. So at least on, at our
side, um, you know, we, we, we try to do as much as possible to equip
people with, um, you know, the best opportunities for, for
iden- uh, uh, identifying new roles and transferring to other organizations.
So, so I appreciate it's not necessarily at a scientific
level of, of analysis, but do you have a sense of
domestic versus international?
Yeah. We, we don't record that information.
It'd be, it'd be inappropriate for me to speculate on-
Yeah.
... you know, how many have gone somewhere.
Um,
you mentioned in your, um, opening notes, Elena, about 39
people having moved into MBIE. Do you, do you sense that
there will be more
than 39 at the end of this process?
Transferring to MBIE? No.
No. So only 39?
Yes.
From a total of
approximately 300?
Uh, so
for that particular group that transferred, um, the total was 42.
Um, and three have not taken up the offer, uh, from MBIE.
Um, but there aren't any more to transfer.
Yeah.
Um-
Sorry.
Yeah.
Um,
just looking at the balance of these questions, but based on,
um, earlier answers, you might not-
Just a supplementary to that one, just to clarify, we had MBI earlier,
and they said that most of the staff have been, um, kind
of, uh, given other opportunity and where their roles are being
transferred. And they also said that, I think the number was 55,
uh, which Callaghan was still working on to see where they
could, uh, be placed. Would that number look
like, right, 55 still not able to-
Unless they-
... find them a placement and where the-
... unless they also, um, included, um, some parts
where it's currently intended to go to the new NZIAT,
the Institute for Advanced-
Okay.
... Technology, for a while, because the institute is not set up
yet-
Okay.
... um, there was an option to transfer to MBIE first and then to
NZIAT.
Okay.
Um, but, um, currently we've held on to those groups.
If you include those, it's probably close to 55.
Oh, good. Thank you for that clarification.
Um, uh, no more questions, Reuben?
Supplementaries on that-
No. ... okay. Our new primary score for this.
Thank you. Um, we've heard from scientists that it's easier to be-
Okay. ... in the science industry in Trump's America than in-
Nice.
... Aotearoa right now. So I'm wondering-
(laughs)
... what the morale is like-...
given you've just gone through a really difficult process.
I imagine it's not very good, but if you could give us a sense of how
morale is in the sector.
I can. I, I, I can kick off. Um,
so first of all, uh, I wanted to reiterate the words of my chair
to acknowledge that it's been a difficult process.
Um, however, I also want to, um, give a huge shout-out to
our, our staff who've, um, uh, really done the best out
of a difficult situation. Uh, and particular would be to highlight the
biotechnologies group, uh, who have taken up the challenge to, um,
you know, f- find additional commercial contracts to
improve their overall (clears throat) commercial viability, and
they're making really good progress on that.
Um, and, and again, I think our, our staff have been absolutely
fantastic. So I wouldn't say that the morale is, um,
you know, low at this point. Obviously, um, it is, it
has been a difficult process but, um,
I'd say our staff have done incredibly well under the circumstances.
And, um, Cliff has been in charge of the area over the last few
years so maybe-
Mm-hmm. ... if you want to add some words to that?
Yeah. I mean, again, I'll reiterate the professionalism of our staff who
have, who have been moving on, uh, and that it's, you know, it's a
challenging period to work through.
Um,
we are in phase now where for science staff in particular, we're
working on more positive outcomes which is the transition of, of
Glycosyn, our biotechnologies group, the measurement standards laboratory,
to their new homes. So it's, it's more about moving people to where they will sit
within the system ongoing now, which is, is more
positive.
Mm. Okay, um-
Yep.
And in terms of, I mean, I guess all transitions are
disruptive.
Mm.
Um,
and there has been some real support from the science
sector in general for a more rational
organization, but we've also been hearing
very, um, a lot of concerns from the
science sector
about the way in which the transition's being managed.
Not, not throwing any shade on Callaghan, but the way in
which the wider, um, transition's being managed.
How stable do you think our science sector is
given what's, that you're being dis-, you've been
disestablished and there's a whole lot of change in that space, there's a
lot of loss of scien- scientist capability
overseas? How stable do you think we are in
our science sector in general?
Hm.
Okay, yeah. I, I mean it's, you know, our job
is really to, to implement the decisions from government, so, um,
and that there have been wi- wider considerations around, uh, transitioning
to a new model for the entire system.
Um, that's for the government to comment on.
Um, we are just focused on making sure that what's within our
control, um, that we do that job well and that we support our staff
wherever they go, um, in, in transferring into the
system. Um, and I think any, any change, as you pointed out,
comes with disruption, and we, we have been focused on making sure we
support our customers through this change, and I think we've done a good job on
that.
I'm not asking you to comment on-
So, so questions about the annual performance, the year which we are
reviewing, so if you bring the question to that.
Sorry, and, and in terms of the-
Mm-hmm.
... the
disestablishment of GIQ, that,
how, how well has ... I mean, you've, you've talked about how that's going,
but how well is that proceeding
and at what, you know, what timeline have you got-
Yep.
...
on the, on that? Yeah, so we're, we're following a, a standard, uh, Treasury process in better
business, and preparing a better business case.
Um, that, that work, um, kicked off, uh, immediately when
we, um, were asked to do that by our minister.
Uh, we are now well progressed in that process, and we're expecting to deliver the
draft business case, uh, in February, March, um, to our minister, and then it goes
through, um, a series of consultations with the final business
case expected in June, uh, next year.
And just in terms of, um, assets on the
ground, we do know that having assets like that is
critical to attracting talent to
Aotearoa. Is there, is there a plan for
the ... Are you aware of a plan to, to, uh, to maintain some of the
assets
or is it, is it-
(clears throat)
... it's just, we're just getting rid of them and
...
Uh, it, it, it's part of this process, um, and, and obviously the,
ultimately, um, the decision is with the government.
We are, our job is to prepare, look at any and all options, and we've done quite a
wide, um, engagement process, um, in, in
Lower Hutt and, and beyond, uh, with key stakeholders.
So, we feel we've, we've done, um, you know,
our job to make sure that all options are on the table.
Um, and then beyond that, uh, it's up to the minister to decide.
So, so just to give it in context, um, we have two
so-called anchor tenants, if you like, on GIQ
who are paying suboptimal, um, commercial rates.
They are supported by Callaghan. Their
activities are, are not isolated into those buildings.
They utilize
other assets in other buildings. So,
the business case that we're preparing needs to take that into
consideration of the options. It's not so much that we can
carve off Robinson-
Mm.
... and the Ferrier Institutes and they could be actually
totally self-contained. It's, it's not as easy as that.
Mm.
So it's a challenging issue.
Yes, and I, and I, and I'm very aware of the, um, the
complexity when you've effectively been a host
for-
Yes. ... innovators, and that, that space is
now also disrupted. In, in
there, what are you doing, how are
you...How are you able to
support them
while you're undergoing a process to support them to make, to
make good decisions and to be provided
for?
We have sufficient funding for them to actually survive until our
funding
finishes, which is June '26. There is no indication from
government that there's any further funding
forgotten.
Okay.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, next question we have is from, uh, Dr. Hamish Campbell.
Excellent. Thank you. One of the, um, programs which is
transferring to MB is the research and development
tax incentive. Um, what, what evaluation
has been done on the outcomes of that over the last couple
years?
Yes, I can, um, talk to that. Um, so the, the
program came up for, um,
the, uh, the review, um, recently.
Um, and, um, so it was a formal review done, and there's actually
a, a, a comprehensive report, um, that's
been produced. Uh, and just a few highlights from that, um, so that
we, we believe the program has been very, very successful.
Um, so it's been six years, um, and over this
period between 2020 and '24, uh,
uh, over 1,750 firms accessed the scheme,
um, with an estimated, uh, billion dollar in tax
credits, um, supporting over $7 billion in R&D
activity. Um, the average, uh,
spend, uh, that, uh, the scheme supported by, by
businesses in R&D was, uh, over $270,000.
And the report estimated that the,
um, the scheme generated an estimated
1.83 billion in additional R&D
activity, um, for the country. So roughly for every dollar the
government spends, um, firms spend $1.40
on additional R&D that they wouldn't have done otherwise.
Mm-hmm.
So, um, we believe the, the report is very comprehensive.
It's been undertaken by, um, uh, by MB and the University
of Otago and Motu. So, um, was externally reviewed, and there's a,
there's a very comprehensive report.
Mm-hmm. Have, has there been any reports of companies
finding delays in actually getting, um, the
credits?
I'd say initially it, it, it took us, uh, a little while to implement this
scheme and, and, um, you know, because we moved from a grant-based scheme to a tax
incentive scheme. So that, that change was always going to be a little bit tricky.
And, um, I think also for companies to get used to it
as a very different way of, um, getting the tax, um,
credits, uh, versus getting money up front.
But, um, after some teething problems, I'd say, um,
we've worked with our accounting partners and everyone else.
A lot of education was done with companies and, and I think
now if you look at the statistics around wait times and
backlog, um, it's well within the targets.
And so I wouldn't say at this point there are any significant
delays.
Yeah, thank you.
Okay, good. Uh, go to Glenn Bent.
Uh, kia ora and thank you for your time.
Uh, I know it's not easy. Uh, I just want to talk
about, um, startups in tech and, and wanted to
talk a bit about the, um,
following on from, um, Scott Willis' comments around, around your site.
But can you just give us some insights into the work you do around
science and tech startups and working with, um,
innovation?
Yeah, absolutely. So I mean, it, again, up
until January this year, the, the work largely, um, split
into, um, financial support, um, through our Tech
Incubator program, um, which has been, um, also from our
perspective, very successful over the years, especially around the commercialize-
commercialization of science. And we're working with our five incubation partners
there. Even though we only sort of had half a year of
activity before the announcement, there were still, uh, 17 grants going
through. Um, and,
uh, you know, that, that's a, that's a
formal sort of financial support that exists.
Um, and the program continues until, um, the end of
next financial year. Um, and then it's up for review as
well. But we would consider it's been very successful.
Uh, in addition to that, um, we provide a lot of, um,
incubation and acceleration support for any and all startups.
So not only deep tech and science commercialization, but also founder-led
startups. Uh, and that has been done a- again, very successfully
over the years and support through, um,
incubators, uh, around the country and direct support
for founders including health and mental wellbeing support.
So it's a comprehensive, um, package of support that we've
delivered over the years.
Mm-hmm. Are you able to just give us some examples
of what that's meant, whether it be in the last financial year or we can look back
even further, you know, in terms of what that's meant for New Zealand, for
science and, um, for innovation?
Yeah, I mean, we look at, um, what, what is the difference between those that are
going through these programs and, um, and, and those that,
that, um, you know, are doing the journey by themselves.
Often what we find is, uh, the companies that we support you see a lot,
uh, in, you know, high tech awards for example.
Um, they tend to close funding rounds more
easily, um, and they're able to, um,
attract, um, overseas and local investments.
So there've been a few, um, example, I don't know, I think
we're not supposed to mention names.
So-
Ah.
Um, but
there, there've been a few stellar examples this year.
Um, in the agritech space for example-
Mm-hmm.
... closing very, very significant funding rounds with companies being
valued, uh, several hundreds of millions of dollars.
And that's, um-You know, we wouldn't take full
credit for their success but we've been along the, the
journey for them and at times have helped them.
And, and what founders are telling us is that
at times, especially during COVID, um, the R&D loans, for example-
Mm-hmm.
... often made a difference between companies going out of business
versus continuing on, and some of them have now become very successful.
Mm-hmm. And have you been able to, um, you know, I guess in terms
of the work you do, the, you know, the investment obviously government gives and
then the investment you make in these startups and these different, um, innovators
and then obviously, yeah, like you say, like an agricultural business that then
grows and brings money in, in, into New Zealand, which I think's really exciting.
I wanna, um... A- around Grace Field, and last
term I was, I was, had the privilege of being on this committee and we got to do a
visit, uh, out there and, um, it's one of those amazing places that you've driven
past a million times but once you get in there and see-
(laughs)
... and like you said at the start, how many buildings there are and how- and all
the different innovative spaces.
Um,
again, what does that site mean for the science
community innovation in New Zealand?
And, um, f- to you, Chair, in your opening remarks, you talked about
some people actually, obviously it's not just people who work for Callaghan who use
the site, it's, it's other innovators are coming and using it.
Could you just give us some examples in the last year of, of how that site has
worked and has, uh, has fostered science and innovation?
Why don't you do that-
(laughs)
... in terms of...
Yeah, uh, I mean, following on from the comments from my chair,
it's, um, obviously with our, our anchor tenants, um, you know, the
institutes from Victoria University, um, they do a lot of work out there,
um, and it's, um, both in, in biotech as well as material
sciences.
Mm-hmm.
Um, and I think it's, to a certain extent what has worked really well
at, uh, Grace Field was just the density of, um, sort of high
density scientists in, um, in a small space.
And so that leads to cross-pollination of-
Mm-hmm.
... ideas and, um, you know, those corridor conversations that we highly
encourage. Uh, and to a certain extent, I think
the, the, the smaller organizations, um, startups that
have located at, at Grace Field were also benefiting from that.
Um, and
that is still continuing where possible
and so we've, you know, throughout this year, we've been trying to, um, support
those companies as much as possible and to, um...
The work continues for us to, to see how we can, um, while
funding still exists, how we can make use of existing facilities-
Mm-hmm.
... um, where it makes sense. Um, and again, I think
what, what will be, uh, really important going forward is
just to have these, um, to have clear priorities.
Mm-hmm.
I think that's been a challenge in the past where, um,
you know, it wasn't, wasn't always clear at a, a sort of a country level
what, um, sort of sciences we, we really want to support.
And, and so, um, as a result, narrowing that
for a place like GIQ will be really important.
Um, and right now biotech and material sciences are very strong in that-
Mm-hmm.
... in that area.
I got one question to close it off, thanks.
It's just around, and I know we're looking back, um, but there's a little bit
of forward, but I'm trying not to. But it's, it's around what else is in New
Zealand like GIQ that has the
space, has the facilities, uh, for people
to, um,
do their
experiments and science?
There's very few and also GIQ is in the unfortunate position of
having unique instrumentation.
Okay.
So (clears throat) and it's probably why Ferrier and Robinson are there as well,
you know. GIQ actually was a hub as Stefan
mentioned, so it created that
community.
Yeah.
Um, as far as I understand, there's not an equivalent that
exists in that space.
Just up on that.
Yeah.
Something reminiscent, yeah.
Um, just to
dig a little further into, into the answers to that, particularly to that last
question around the infrastructure piece and around that, that
you've spoken to the hub of people, but also to the hub, you know, of the, the
resource and equipment that is there.
Um,
I'm imagining that
PROs will potentially want some of that.
Mm-hmm, yep.
But, um, is there, is there a risk that
there'll be facilities, resource and equipment that is,
um, left to languish or not, um, picked
up by, by other organizations?
Yeah, I, I, I'll, um, I'll start it at a high level then, um, Cliff can
provide some details. Um, but so
w- we don't currently see a risk that, um, any assets or infrastructure will
go to waste because it's highly...
A lot of the, um, equipment that we use is highly desirable- Mm-hmm.
... um, and there are many other places in the system where, um,
it can, uh, you know, continue to be supported and used.
Um, I think the... We've been guided by Treasury around an
asset disposal process that gives preference to the PROs first,
uh, but overall from a system perspective, our job is to find the,
the, um, most natural place, um, for this equipment to
go and for it to be continued to be used.
Um, and then for any shared facilities, at the moment, we are still
supporting all of the, uh, all of the equipment, uh, until, um,
our funding, uh, finishes, uh, and that's, um,
beneficial to the Ferrier and, and Robinson Institute.
So, Cliff, do you want to add?
Uh, you know, may- maybe just add, like, the, the overarching view that we've
taken with the, um, the science assets that we have and we need to
divest ourselves of,
is to make sure that we optimize value to the Crown, um,
to, to meet the science, innovation and technology goals of New Zealand with
those assets. And so, so that has involved in some cases where we've
had, um, equipment in, in our Christchurch office which we've
closed. We've moved that equipment to, um, to the new
PROs, CROs at the time. Also offered equipment to
universities and, and then-
... if PROs and the universities are not looking to take it, they're looking to,
to, um, private, private companies to still have it in
use. And as Stephan said, with GIQ, as we've exited
laboratories, we've done it in a manner
such that we keep the equipment, uh, so that it's maintained and can be
used by, uh-
Yeah. ... either current tenants who need to access that equipment
or as an estate where it can be readily-
Mm-hmm.
... um, brought back up to speed and reused.
So, just interested in h- in hearing that some of it will move into
PROs-
Mm-hmm.
... which would suggest that there is still accessibility for-
... locally, for other people to make use of it.
If it falls into or, or is, you know, the value was
realized by it being sold to private enterprise or, or-
Mm-hmm.
... private industry companies, um, do you see a risk
that New Zealand's science community and innovators
could lose access to either equipment and resource or affordable
equipment and resource?
We, we are managing it through a, a,
um, priority order of how we divest ourselves of
things. So, we don't just go straight to-
Yeah.
... who wants to pay the most or who, who makes the most noise.
We're looking at where it can go, where it still can be accessed by the
wider New Zealand science community.
We're, we're guided by the Treasury guidelines-
Mm-hmm.
... in terms of assets. The, t- the, the challenge
that Callaghan also has is on the other side of the slate, which
is some of the equipment is highly valued-
Mm-hmm.
... not only by the PROs but the institutes.
So we've got sort of vying bidders, if you like- Mm-hmm.
where, um, as previously mentioned, Callaghan was a host and
allowed multiple users to access that.
Once it's gone into a PRO, for instance-
Mm-hmm.
... some of the institutes may not be able to access or other players may not be
able to access. We have been a host to a variety of
users.
So, what do you think happens to those institutes that then don't have
access?
Well, they may have to rethink about how they can either
invest or
they will be charging-
Yeah.
... charge whatever the PRO proposes to charge them.
And do you think that there's an increased risk then that they'll go somewhere
else, as in overseas?
I can't make any comment about that.
S- all right. So, um, I have a question
from, uh, Vanessa Wenning.
Thank you, Madam Chair. Um, in your thank you very much.
In your o- in your opening remarks, um, you mentioned, uh, briefly
around, um, the, um, was it the
plant, uh, yeah, the plant
biotech group at least, um, not necessarily plant, sorry, the biotech group,
um, and some of the work that's happening there.
Um, are you able to elaborate a little bit more about what,
um, is happening and how that is
transitioning?
Cliff can-
Yeah. Cliff, sure.
Yeah. So the, the biotechnology group, uh, has
been, um, designated as moving to the, the Bioeconomy Science
Institute. So, um, so our mission, while they're
still part of Callaghan Innovation, is to set them up as best we can for success.
So we're working hard to provide, uh, revenue stretch
targets for them to really focus on commercial improvement, bringing in new
customers, new contracts. So, so we're going hard doing that with the
group while they are with us.
Mm-hmm.
At the same time, uh, we're working with the folk at, uh, at
BSI to set the, the project up to create the pathway
for that group to move and become part of the Bioeconomy Science
Institute.
Mm-hmm. And, um, are there any challenges in that that, uh, need to be
overcome at the moment or is it going well?
Uh, it is going well and to a certain extent,
uh, it is, it's a bit business as usual in terms of delivery to
customers. Uh, so, so we have the same customer base.
We're looking to build it further, so, so that's good news.
Um, and it really comes down t- to, uh, now just how
we work with, with the BSI around timelines, to
have them moved across into, into that organization and working with them while
they work out their own structure and their science capability sort of set up
and, and then working out where our biotech group sits with them.
Mm-hmm.
But it's, um, you know, we're, we're, we're hand-in-glove working with
them.
So no issues at the moment.
And further to that, the, uh, Food Innovation Network is, um-
Mm-hmm. Can't speak to that.
How's that going?
Yeah. Again, so, um, a, a lot of the focus, um, for
us, uh, you know, um, over the last couple of years actually has been
on, um, simplifying and, and, and just making
things, um, you know, improving efficiencies.
Um, so the Food Innovation Network is a great example of,
um, doing that work and
consolidating the network from having several
separate legal entities and operating almost semi-independently-
Mm-hmm.
... into one entity. And we, we were able to get that done
during this financial year in the early stages.
And we're already seeing the benefit.
We recently appointed a new, um, CEO into this.
Mm-hmm.
And she has, um, already made great progress, uh,
in, in clarifying the value proposition to innovators in New
Zealand and to operate independently, and again, to have a stronger
commercial focus.
Mm-hmm.
And now, it's a very cohesive, um, value proposition.
There's, um, one place to go to, um, and they're
operating up and down the country, but with the same sort of
product and service suite, uh, and one place to go to.
So I think that's been a, a, a really successful process that
we oversaw and we're very happy with, um, where it is at now.
That's great. Thank you.
Uh, Dr. David Runciman. Runciman.
Mm-hmm. (clears throat) Um, I guess, um, gee, it's
tough to disestablish, let alone establish, isn't it?
Um, and you've got lots of, um,
I'd say experience and skills built up around the tech incubator and food
tech and Frontier Ventures and Food Innovation
Network. All of these things are really gold learning for us all.
So, I've got kind of two questions related.
Um, one is, a- are you...Are you feeling confident that you can
transfer those skills and knowledge into the new, uh, ecosystem that we're
working with? Second one was your two key
points around how our universities, um,
struggle a little bit with commercialization, um, and
being able to, uh, move into a slightly different space there and the
knowledge gaps that are there. So there's kind of examples of things that, your
learnings we need to capture and carry on.
Yeah, I mean, I can, um... Again, to- to- to your first
point, um, I think a lot of the- the
knowledge, um, sits with people, um, who- who are
transferring. And we've- y- you know, if you look at,
um, you know, what- what's- what interventions
specifically, um, will remain, so the Tech Incubator is a great
example, uh, around, um, incubation and-
and the science commercialization.
And I think it was actually a great, um, example for New Zealand
because the intervention goes all the way back, I think, to 2012,
2013. And then, uh, so took us, again, a while to get this
program right. But, um, over the last few years, it's really hit its strides.
And the good thing is that it's being transferred to MBIE now and is administered
out of MBIE. Um, so I think a lot of the lessons learned that you're
talking about will be captured in the review that's, um, uh,
scheduled for next financial year towards the end of the- the overall
program. Um, and I'm confident that, um,
we have done our bit to retain the, um,
the capability with staff, um, in the system because they're transferring to
MBIE. Similarly, um, for a lot of the groups that
are transferring to the PROs, um, I think, um, it'll be really
important for those, um,
for the new organizations to, yeah, could continue, uh,
I guess (laughs) , taking the lessons learned from staff transferring and then
applying that more broadly in, uh, in their new remit.
So
yeah, I- I think it's been... Callaghan has had the
opportunity to try out a few things.
Um, some have worked really well and,
um, fortunately for where we are now, those things that have worked really well are
being retained.
And the universities?
Well,
th- that... I think one of the, uh, opportunities
now for the new system is to have a much closer relationship between the
universities and the PROs. Um, in the
past, I think, um, for- for a range of
reasons, um, that connection perhaps wasn't as strong.
Um, but again, with some of our staff transferring into the
PROs and, um, looking at, again, the- the
science commercialization space, there's a great opportunity to make use of those
lessons learned.
Okay.
Thank
Uh, question from Reuben Davidson. Thank you.
Um, in the annual report, it- it talks about, um, the
Grow product suite for Maori innovators stopping in
2024-'25. Um, has that been completely terminated
or
is there- do you know of an- of a replacement for equivalent that's being
established elsewhere?
Been terminated.
Yeah.
So that's gone forever?
Yeah. And
so then given that, is there... What support
do you believe, um,
would be available to
Maori-led or Mātauranga Maori-led
initiatives in the next two years?
I'm not aware of any, unless
there's the other, um, new entities that are standing up will have an
allocation.
But that hasn't been signaled to you to be able to navigate people
from No, no.
... or initially-
The- the- the funding line in regard to that
initiative, um, has
stopped.
Question from Jan Tilley.
Thank you. Um,
when I read your annual report, I noticed that that's quite a significant
percentage-
It is.
... of the support that comes through.
I think it said 8% of what you do is supported in the
Maori innovation area-
Mm-hmm.
... um, which seems quite significant to me.
And then looking at the figures that you've got there around the rationale behind
that, with the, um, Maori economy being worth around
70 billion dollars, um, it seems like a big
hole that's going to that, or is now
existing. I think from my perspective, I'd quite
like to have an understanding of, um,
sorts of examples that would have led to Maori
business, um, owned businesses enabling them to increase their growth
in this
particular year that we're talking about, I guess. But what...
Been given that that's 8%, what sort of- what did that look like, that
support to enable those Maori businesses to grow?
Yeah, I can talk to that. So we- we chose to
work with partners who already have existing relationship with a lot of
Maori businesses rather than starting from scratch as a Crown entity and
saying, "We want Maori businesses to come to us." We
selected, uh, a number of,
um, networks in the Maori business space, um, who already
had, um, large, um, existing customer base and that's
actually why it was possible for us to scale up relatively quickly and get to those
8% because we were tapping into existing
relationships. And I think that would be, um, a lesson learned
that- that we would share with others in that space, is rather than sort
of starting something new and expecting, um,
businesses to come to a- a new entity, you know, working with
existing partners. Uh, so partner strategy.
Uh, and- and often, uh, when we did the review a few years ago
about our product and service offering, um, we realized
that sometimes, um, you know, our- our language wasn't
quite right or the way we thought about products and so again, working
with those who understood... um, you know, at
a, sort of a, at a frontline, wh- what it actually
looks like for these companies and where their, where their challenges
are, is to then, uh, change our product and service offering.
Uh, and so that's what we did. We had a number of specific
offerings that were targeted, um, and it was delivered through
face-to-face workshops, um, online material, um,
the whole range. Uh, but again, mostly delivered through partners.
So
it- it said -
Yep, that's you.
... up to you. Thank you. Um, when you say partners, and that's,
um, th- really good insight is to sharing that going
forward so that we're not going back and starting from ground zero
again. Is there also government partners like Te Pege?
Like, whether or
No. Um, well, I mean, we, we had some very loose,
um, sort of connections and, and checking in with them, uh,
around what, um, w- you know, e- lessons learned
or programs that they're running.
Right.
But the partners that I'm talking about were more, were outside of
government.
Right.
Um, and were often, um, privately, uh, sort of
started initiatives, um, that had just got to significant scale.
All right. Thank you.
Scott Willis?
I think follow- following on from that, would you be willing to
talk about some of the... I mean, given the, the, the pilot
program for Māori businesses, comment on some of the successes
or some of the examples where that support's fallen
and, and the results.
Uh, uh, I mean, (laughs) without naming names, that, that will be
difficult. (laughs)
Is it... Do, do we, are, do we have -
So maybe just provide an overview, which is covered in your
report.
Um,
yeah. I mean, I can, I, we, we can provide, you know, sort of
stats around, uh-
Mm-hmm. ... that, uh, to the committee afterwards.
Um, but in general, um,
what, what it's often meant is, um,
the, the navigation part of, you
know, um, working through the system to identify, well,
which grants are available, which programs are available, um,
who can... Um, o- often just referring, for example, to the Food
Innovation Network who have specific, um, services or to a
local incubation program or to a partner in the Regional Business
Partner Network, um, several of them which we...
So the Regional Business Partner Network's actually a great example because we,
um, c- co-ran that with MBIE and
we were involved in the design of that program to provide
a, um, a, a remote partner into the program that can
support especially Māori businesses wherever they're located.
And so often it was, what we found is, uh, a lot of
entrepreneurs weren't aware of these services, so we had a, a
significant referral and brokering role to say, "Actually, there is local
support available for you, um, through these programs."
Mm.
Um, but if you're interested in stats, we can absolutely provide that.
Yeah. That would be great. Reuben, do we have something?
Thank you. Um, another, another point from the annual
report
talks about, um,
specific areas where the world is moving incredibly quickly,
AI being one, but also digital clean tech.
Um,
construction and, and that's ceasing entirely in '24, '25.
Um, do you think
even a smooth transition, if, if that's what's happened, has there been a
smooth transition to that work being picked up somewhere else by one of
the PROs or, um,
y- yeah, how much of a disruption to the work that was happening in that
space has that transition been?
Yeah. Uh, it's, uh, it sort of, it depends on the area.
I would say, for example, um, in, in AI,
that there's been a reasonably good transition because we have worked with partner
organizations like NZTE or NIWA, um, they've
obviously, they're going to be the, um, part of the PRO going
forward. Uh, and so that, uh, knowledge that we've built up around-
Mm-hmm.
... you know, AI, uh, is, you know, is, is retained in that.
In other areas, I think it falls to other parts of the system like the
construction sector report, um, uh, that we, we
just, um, uh, I guess saw an opportunity to
support that sector, um, through a s- specific sort of
initiative that we stood up. Um, and, and that program has been
discontinued, but it needs to be continued outside of,
um, you know, Callaghan Innovation obviously-
Yeah. But- ... and then go forward with this construction plan.
But it's not currently?
Uh, it was, it finished as part of our initiatives-
Yeah.
... and it will continue in other parts.
Right. I guess, and the other, the other thing that sits within that
is, we've talked about physical assets of high
value and, and there being demand for those, but
IP is the other part of that, right?
So
huge high value IP.
Yep.
A- are you confident that we're
shepherding that appropriately or losing that?
Yeah. So actually IP and, and, um, you know, all sort
of knowledge, um, knowledge management in the wider sense as well as
record keeping, we've, we've stood up a, a separate internal group that
looks at that, um, to look at, you know, how do
we... The important part about IP is actually
to classify it and to identify it so that it can be shared.
And so we've got dedicated staff on that, doing that right now and
then packaging it up and identifying the best parts in the system where
that can be handed over to. Um, so I'm confident that at, at this point
that we're doing all we can in our current situation to package that
up.
And you're not seeing gaps where there won't be somewhere for something to go?
... it, it's impossible to say at this point whether
there, there may or may not be gaps, um, we just focus on
what we can do and what we're in control of and we're offering that up to the
system.
So, if you, if you
hypothetically, if you did identify a gap,
wh- how do you address that?
Well, we, we don't
have a, well, it's not part of our work at the moment to
identify gaps, I guess. What, what we're focusing on
is, um, packaging up our IP
and then offering it up to the system.
The default is, um, everything goes to
MBIE, uh, and you know, so we, we also
trust in the system that
once it's been packaged, labeled and identified, um,
that others will take it from here when Callaghan is disestablished.
Yeah. Perhaps it would help you to understand that the
minister has clearly identified our role
is to transfer
and the second thing is to disestablish in the orderly
manner. And that's, that's very clear, it's, it's
quite narrow if you like, very complex in the box.
It's not quite like having a bunch of dirty washing and
trying to match up socks of various colors and sizes,
but that's all we've got.
Yeah.
And
it's been made very clear that this needs to be done
by a certain type because there's no funding after that.
Yeah.
Thank you. Any, uh, Scott Willis, you had a question?
No? Uh, David Wilson?
Yeah, really short question, what are the big things you've got to do before the
final day? What's still in front of you?
Um, the big thing is to have the transfer of staff
and to negotiate with the staff that will be transferred so that we
take their interests at heart. Um, that requires
legislation to be stood up so they've got a home, if you like, to
disestablish the rest of the staff and also to
present the business case
in regard to the GIQ site.
Mm.
Um, we've got some other elements associated with it, like we've
got commercial contracts that we will have
to either close down
or see whether there is a home for them.
Yeah, that's significant, isn't it?
Because I-
Because one of them that was mentioned by Cliff is very significant, called
Glycogen.
Yeah.
Okay. Reuben Davidson, you have a question?
Thank you for that, yeah. Um,
I guess this sort of digs a little more into the,
um, potentially narrow remit that you've got, but,
oh, to close, uh, but there'd
be a huge level of insight
and expertise that you have in this space,
through the, have captured through the life of, and your clients at Callaghan.
So I'm just curious to know, is there any mechanism at all for
that exp- that expertise and that experience, both through
Callaghan when it was performing
without imminent closure and also the closure
process. That, is there any mechanism in place for that to
be reported forward and, and learned from?
Um, there hasn't been a direct conversation with the
minister about that, but if there is an opportunity for us to share
that information, we certainly will be willing to share it.
But there's been no, no funding, no process put in place to enable
that, to
facilitate that?
Not that I'm aware of just now.
Not specifically, no.
Okay. And Glen Millett?
Well, thank you, and I acknowledge, um, the heaviness of our session this
afternoon, and, um, and thank you for being
here, and it's not easy. And I guess I want to, you know,
reflecting on the
2012,
you know, um, it became, in 2013 I think it became Callaghan-
Yeah.
... um, you know, looking back on the history, but not only this last year but in
the past, and thinking of Sir Paul Callaghan's legacy, you
know, what are some of the things that you can celebrate in terms of,
um, um, the impacts and the achievements that Callaghan actually has
had not only on New Zealand?
Yeah, thank you, um, and, and thank you for the, the kind words.
And, and yeah,
I'd like to reiterate that, um, you know, it's
been, uh, I think it's been a really challenging but
also rewarding journey over the last 12 years.
Uh, and again, I wanted to acknowledge our staff who throughout the entire
period have, um, you know, as we keep saying,
everyone at Callaghan gets out of bed to, to really support New Zealand and to
support New Zealand innovators, um, and that's, that's been
true over the entire period. People have really gone out of their way to do
that. Um, and a couple of years ago we, we tried to
actually, um, articulate that
in a, in a meaningful way and that's why we launched the Sir Paul Callaghan 100
report.
Oh, that's right.
And, and that was to celebrate the successes, and I think
this is one of the legacies that if you look back, um, several
companies that have been very, very successful, uh, and would
attribute part of their success to the existence of Callaghan Innovation are
featured in that report. Um, I think, um, we also did some
extensive work actually in the previous financial year around an impact
framework-
Mm.
... so we're just at that point to be able to formally
report on the impact, uh, that Callaghan has
created. Um, and
I mean it's, you know, there's, there's too many
individual success stories-
Yeah, yeah.
... to mention at the moment, but-
Yeah.
... um, overall I would say, um-
General reflections on-
Yeah, that, well-Th- there- a lot of, um, in, you know,
in response to the, the media statements that we put out, th- there's been a lot
of, um, expression of gratitude from New Zealand innovators
and companies that Callaghan has existed-
Mm-hmm.
... and that it has made a difference, uh, in their, uh, in their
journeys. And that's what, what we take as a-
Mm-hmm.
... as a success for us, and we walk out of, you know, the situation with our heads
held high.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, and I think that we also need to acknowledge that we were gifted with a
name, Callaghan-
Yes.
Yeah.
... so we've always acknowledged the family.
That's right.
And we have consulted with the family once we were formally
advised that Callaghan would be disestablished, so that they were
well-informed.
Hmm.
W- we're very conscious of where our heritage come from-
Mm-hmm.
... and thought that it was prudent for us to ensure that
the family knew what was going on.
Yeah, I'm glad to hear that.
Right.
And just on, sorry-
Yeah.
Can I ask, clarify, Stefan, you talked about the Impact Framework
Report. Is that something that w- is the committee, we've had that in,
when was that produced?
So that was, uh, that was just at the end of the last financial year.
Okay.
We, um, I think we talked a little bit about it in the last, um-
Ah,
yes. ... annual review. And the, um, we had set up
to, in fact, we got started on the implementation of the framework,
so, um-
Ah.
... ordinarily, we would have had this in place by now-
Mm-hmm.
... and we would have been ready to report for the next financial year, but, um,
given the disestablishment, we stopped all of the work immediately.
Mm-hmm, yeah.
Yeah. But no, thank you, and I, I'm, I'm glad I was gonna ask, and you, you've
addressed it around the family, 'cause obviously the Callaghan name is,
is, um, is so intertwined in it-
Mm-hmm.
... so I'm glad that you've, um, supported them through it as well.
So thank you for-
Yep.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
... for working through this challenging time.
Mm-hmm. Yeah, so members, if there are no more questions, um,
can I say thank you to you and your entire team for
your leadership and for your contribution to, um, the science, uh, that we
have in New Zealand? Um, and I want to wish you all,
uh, the best of luck. And if we don't see you before Christmas,
also merry Christmas to you all. Mm-hmm. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank
you. Thank you.
Thank you.